# MemoryGame
Game for Arduino

This is a memory game for Arduino Uno written in C++. In order to properly use it, your Arduino board must have a 16x2 RGB LCD Shield and have 5 buttons for up, down, left, right and select commands, as well as a functioning EEPROM.

Instructions:
You are greeted with a welcome screen and then sent to the main menu page where you can choose between playing the story mode, practise mode or entering settings options. Press RIGHT and LEFT buttons to navigate through the main menu as well as the settings menu. Press SELECT to choose an option.

When in story mode, you will see that the starting level is 1 and only 3 lives are given. A randomly generated sequence of directional arrows will be shown to you. You should pay close attention and try to memorize all of them. When the last character from the sequence has been shown, a timer will appear on the top right corner of the screen. It is a sign that you have to start inputting the sequence in the same order as it has been shown to you. Each button corresponds to its respective arrow e.g. RIGHT = arrow to the right, LEFT = arrow to the left etc. If you make a mistake at any point during the input then the screen will turn red, a message will pop up and one of your lives will be deducted. Same goes for if you fail to input the sequence in the time given. If your input is correct however, the screen will turn green and a success message will be shown. The level number will always increase by 1 as long as you input the respective sequence without a mistake. With each level progression the overall difficulty of the game will increase, in terms of sequence length, number of buttons used, time given and speed. Your level progress will always be saved when you reach a new level, which allows you to continue the story with full lives without having to repeat every level. You can also reset your story progression in settings and start from the first level.

In practice mode you are given 5 rounds with no lives to worry about. After you finish them a message will be shown with the percentage of your accuracy. The settings menu gives you an option for changing the sequence length, number of buttons used, show time of a character and blank time before showing the next one, and timer length. These settings will only affect practice mode difficulty. You are given an option to reset the settings back to their default values, as well as an extra option for resetting story mode progression.
